---
title: "All India iGEM Meet - IISER Pune Presentation"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2020-08-02-AIIM
venue: "Virtual"
date: 2020-08-02
# location: "Virtual"
---
This is a short summary of the talk that I gave on my team's progress at the All India iGEM Meet Conference (2020). 

We presented our summer work at the All India iGEM Meet organized by IISER Bhopal. Fueled by iGEM’s principle of collaboration, this year’s AIIM aimed to overcome the barriers posed due to the global pandemic. The idea around the meetup is to come together and understand the uniqueness of each other's projects and provide feedback/criticism. Eminent Professors from across the country, talked about the role of synthetic biology in shaping the future of almost all disciplines of life. I particularly enjoyed the talk by Prof.Ambika on her group's work on modeling of In-Host dynamics in Dengue. (Luckliy, the talk was [recorded](https://youtu.be/5t_6bJtY4Kw)!)

Kiran and I presented our work on modeling peptide drugs against falciparum Malaria using a template-based drug design approach. We had just started for Molecular dynamics simulations on PARAM brahma and presented our work on mining the RCSB Database for suitable parasite-peptide interactions and results of saturated mutagenesis on peptide models to arrive at five peptide inhibitors for the PDB Id : [5MZA](http://www.rcsb.org/structure/5MZA). We mainly received questions on how we could experimentally verify our results from MD data and about the future direction of the project. 

***
